Having been given a clean dataset, I began by using GridSearchCV to find the ideal number of neighbors for the KNN model, which turned out to be three, with an R^2 value of around 0.934. Both the precision and recall scores for both for-profit and non-profit colleges were quite high (all greater than 0.90), but non-profit colleges had slightly higher precision scores than non-profit colleges, while the opposite was true with recall scores. These values show that K Nearest Neighbors did an excellent job of correctly identifying non-profit and for-profit colleges. Both for-profit and non-profit colleges had about equal numbers of incorrectly classified colleges, though once again for-profit colleges fared slightly worse than non-profit colleges, with 76 of these colleges classified incorrectly as opposed to 56.

In addition to KNN, I used a variety of other models: NaiveBayes, Logistic Regression, Gradient Boosting, SVC, and Random Forest, using for loops to identify the ideal parameters of the SVC and Random Forest models (rbf kernel and 32 n_estimators, respectively). Plotting the ROC curve and finding the AUC values helped me to determine the best model for determining for-profit status based on this dataset. Gradient Boosting had the highest AUC value, at 98.67%, though both Random Forest and SVC were only a few tenths of a percent away. The rest of the models fell into the 97% range, with the exception of NaiveBayes, which only achieved a 92.39% AUC value.

To identify the worst colleges, I decided to use a step-by-step process similar to that behind the Random Forest model. I began by finding all the colleges that were not accredited, as this status makes it highly unlikely that graduates will be able to get jobs, defeating the whole purpose of a college education. Conveniently, this criterion also narrowed down the list to only 88 colleges, with which it was much easier to work. Then, I looked through the columns and identified five primary factors that I would believed would identify the worst school: loan principal, tuition revenue per full time equivalent student, students with any loans, low instructional expenditure per full time equivalent student, and for-profit status. I chose these from the list of factors in the cleaned dataset by first ignoring the factors that would have a lot of nuances in relation to college status, such as highest degree, percentage of Black students, average family income, and those that could be explained with extraneous factors, such as seven year repayment completion, five year declining balance, and percent pell grant. This left retention, under investigation, instructional expenditure, tuition revenue, loan principal, federal loan rate, students with any loans, and for profit status. I felt that under investigation was a shaky criterion, as a school could be innocent or there could be many schools that had not been caught yet. I also discounted retention and federal loan rate, as these are very dependent on the economic climate and the students themselves. This left only instructional expenditure, tuition revenue, loan principal, students with any loans, and for profit status. From there, I gathered all these columns in a new dataset and StandardScaled them all, as I wanted them to all be weighted equally in my ranking. Then, I inverted the instructional expenditure column by subtracting each value from 1, as I wanted to penalize having low instructional expenditure, not high. Finally, I added all the values in a row together, and the ones with the highest values were classified as the worst colleges. The top five turned out to be: MedTech Institute, The Boston Conservatory, JFK Muhlenberg Harold B & Dorothy A Snyder Schools-School of Nursing, Vatterott College-Fairview Heights, and Bella Capelli Academy.

One of the biggest factors in identifying a predatory college is for-profit status, as this already strongly suggests that a college's goal is money, not a quality education, as explained [here](https://bigthink.com/politics-current-affairs/predatory-student-loans?rebelltitem=3#rebelltitem3%5D). Nevertheless, as the distinction is made [here](https://tcf.org/content/report/policies-work-dont-work-stop-predatory-profit-colleges/?agreed=1%5D), this does not discount non-profit colleges from being predatory; it simply means that closer attention should be paid to for-profit colleges. The next largest factor is definitely instructional expenditure, which often reflects the quality of the education being provided (it is very difficult to provide excellent education without resources).

Smaller characteristics, such as acceptance, graduation, and retention rates should also be considered, as they provide information on the students' confidence in the school's academics and in the campus, as well as the administration's interests. High acceptance rates suggest that a college simply views students as clients, while low graduation and retention rates suggest that students have caught on to the college's duplicity and have elected to move elsewhere, or that they were unable to finish their degree due to the predatory loans offered. This final point leads into another important marker of a predatory college: a high ratio of student loan payment amounts vs post-graduation income, which is also often used to determine the worth of a college's education, as explained [here](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/13/upshot/harvard-too-obamas-final-push-to-catch-predatory-colleges-is-revealing.html%5D). 